Abstract
This thesis is a part of the YH education at KYH - Higher Vocational Education, aims to 
compare the performance and usability between ChatGPT 3.5 and ChatGPT-4 through the 
development of an interactive React application with the language JavaScript. As the use of 
artificial intelligence is getting more and more common, developers face the challenge of 
selecting the most efficient model for code generation in their programming projects, as AI 
technology grows more common among both developers and their clients.
Due to the possible uncertainty about which version of the Chat Generative Pre-trained 
Transformer model performs best, a comparative study was created to see if the higher costs 
of ChatGPT-4 are worth its more advanced features, compared to the older and free ChatGPT 
3.5.
The study used a working method that included the implementation of human-generated user 
stories to define the requirements for the application, followed by the development of the 
interactive application in React. The comparison focused on code complexity, product 
completion, how well the model took on an introductory message for clarification of tasks, 
and the number of questions to the model was required to clarify each user story. In addition 
to this, the same requirements were also placed on both Chat models throughout the project 
for a better comparison. 
The results showed that ChatGPT-4 outperformed ChatGPT 3.5 in terms of efficiency and 
usability, underscoring the importance of choosing the right technology to maximize 
productivity in software development. This insight can be valuable for developers aiming to 
hone their coding processes, which may contributing to a more cost-effective and agile 
development environment.
